.TH "helmparms3d" 1 1.0.0 "29 Oct 2020" "User Manual"

.SH NAME
helmparms3d

.SH DESCRIPTION
Parameter computation tool for 3D Helmert transformation

The 3D Helmert transformation (Xt=T+sRX) is a frequently used method in geodesy to produce transformations between different Cartesian coordinate systems.
.TP
where
 Xt = transformed coordinate vector
 X = initial coordinate vector
 T = translation vector
 R = rotation matrix including rx, ry, rz
 rx, ry, rz = rotations around the coordinate axes
 s = scale factor

.SH SYNOPSIS
helmparms3d [xyz_src_infilename] [xyz_dest_infilename] [parms_outfilename]

.SH FILES
.TP
xyz data file format:

 x[1] y[1] z[1]
 ..   ..   ..
 ..   ..   ..
 x[n] y[n] z[n]
.TP
helmert parameter file format:

 r11 r12 r13
 r21 r22 r23
 r31 r32 r33
 tx ty tz
 s

.SH EXAMPLE
helmparms3d /usr/local/share/helmparms3d/testpoints_src.txt /usr/local/share/helmparms3d/testpoints_dest.txt testparms.txt

.SH COPYRIGHT
helmparms3d:
(C) 2011 U. Niethammer

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

.SH COPYRIGHT
svdm:
(C) 2003, Division of Imaging Science and Biomedical Engineering, University of Manchester, UK.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list
of conditions and the following disclaimer.

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
materials provided with the distribution.

Neither the name of the University of Manchester nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

.SH SEE ALSO
 helmert3d(1)

.SH CONTACT
 Website: https://github.com/dr-ni/helmert3d
